https://docs.google.com/document/d/1C84gnoRTyMxpDBMTmeXVEejdTcsK-pabb7NLF-eKqgg/edit?usp=sharing

What is the difference between the primary node and the replica node in regard to the application.
One of the main differences between the primary node and the replica node, regarding the application, is that the primary database is regarded as the authoritative source, while the replica database is synchronised to it. The primary node serves as the keeper of information, here the “real” data is kept, then writing only happens here. On the other hand, reading only occurs in the replica or slave node. This architecture purpose is due to safeguard site reliability. In case a site receives a lot of traffic, a replica node prevents overloading of the master node with reading and writing requests. This eases the load of the entire system preventing it from collapsing

How a database Primary-Replica (Master-Slave) cluster works
A database Primary-Replica (Master-Replica) is a mechanism which enables data of one database server (the master) to be replicated or to be copied to one or more computers or database servers (the slaves), in order all users share the same level of information. This process leads to a distributed database in which users can quickly access data without interfering with each other.

What is the difference between the primary node and the replica node in regard to the application.
One of the main differences between the primary node and the replica node, regarding the application, is that the primary database is regarded as the authoritative source, while the replica database is synchronised to it. The primary node serves as the keeper of information, here the “real” data is kept, then writing only happens here. On the other hand, reading only occurs in the replica or slave node. This architecture purpose is due to safeguard site reliability. In case a site receives a lot of traffic, a replica node prevents overloading of the master node with reading and writing requests. This eases the load of the entire system preventing it to collapse


